Well, now we're looking forward to hearing from a graduate of the 41st class of Gilead,
a member of the governing body, brother Garrett Loesch.
Brother Loesch has just completed 25 years of service as a member of the governing body.
How wonderful.
Brother Loesch will speak to us now on the subject.
Are you ready?
As Gilead students, no doubt you have been asked that question many times this week.
The Boy Scouts have the greeting, always prepared.
What are they prepared for?
They're supposed to be ready or prepared for doing at least one good deed each day.
True Christians also are supposed to be always prepared, prepared for what?
Yes, for doing good deeds, but also prepared for the final return of the Lord Jesus
as a mighty heavenly king in the Great Tribulation.
Jesus began to rule over his congregation when?
Well, I'm sure you understand at Pentecost 33 of a common era over his congregation.
Inside book says, the scriptures show, and this is a quote,
that from Pentecost 33 CE onward a spiritual kingdom was set up over his disciples.
Paul reminded Christians of Colosseum.
He rescued us from the authority of the darkness and transferred us into the kingdom
of his beloved son, Colossians 1, 13.
Jesus has been ruling as king over his disciples ever since Pentecost 33.
He always was the head of the congregation compared to a body.
So he ruled as king also during the Middle Ages.
However, something changed in 1914 CE, what was it?
Well, from that time onward, Jesus would rule also over his enemies, both in heaven and on earth.
The prophecy was fulfilled that we find in Psalm 110, and there it says in Psalm 110,
Jehovah declared to my Lord, sit at my right hand until I place your enemies at the stool of my feet.
Jehovah will extend the sceptre of your power out of Zion saying,
go subduing in the midst of your enemies.
Well, we understand that in 1914 he returned as heavenly king to rule.
Since that time, many things are happening, showing us that he's actually ruling in the midst of his enemies.
He's not ruling only over his congregation.
Satan and his agents were not able to prevent the appointment of the faithful and discreet slave.
But what about Jesus' final coming as judge?
When will that return happen?
Well, we don't know exactly, but Jesus predicted events from which we can conclude when it would be close.
Although Jesus said that we would not be able to know in advance the exact time or date
he prophesied events that would occur from which we could notice the nearness of his final coming as a judge.
In the past, many people attempted to pinpoint his return by their expectations and predictions.
They aroused curiosity, but many times these predictions failed.
Even in the first century, there already existed among Christians false expectations.
The Thessalonians, for instance, had such.
Paul needed to write to them for them to find the balance.
Second, Thessalonians chapter 2, and verse 1,
Onward says,
He says in verse 3,
there were many other false expectations during centuries that followed.
Marta of Tours, a French bishop, stated the world would end before the year 400.
He polytors and two others predicted Jesus to return in the year 500 of our time.
Africanus, Sextus, Julius, with his Latin name predicted it for the year 800.
Of course, also the year 1000 was predicted,
including by a Pope, Pope Silvestre as some sources claim.
Pope Innocent, the third, and predicted the end for the year 1244,
which would have been 666 years after the rise of Islam.
Famous painter, Sandro Poticelli, predicted the year 1500 and four.
Astrologers in London predicted February 1, 1524,
as a result 20,000 Londoners left their homes for higher ground.
1533, Melheur Hoffmann, predicted Christ's second coming to take place that year in Strasbourg.
He claimed that 144,000 people would be saved,
while the rest of the world would be consumed by fire.
Luther, German priest and professor of theology, predicted the end of the world would occur
no later than in the year 1600.
Christopher Columbus, predicted famous, we all know him,
predicted in 1501 in his book of prophecy that the world would end in 1656.
John Napier predicted the end of the world for 1700.
Christopher Love, a Presbyterian minister, predicted the year 1805.
A Lutheran clergyman, Johann Albrecht Bengal, predicted the year 1836.
And the founder of the Methodist Church, John Wesley, predicted the same year, 1836.
Melheur, a Baptist preacher, predicted the date March 21, 1844, for the return of Christ.
But later he revised it to October 22.
The Adventist preacher Vendel predicted the year 1873.
When Jesus did not come, he reinterpreted his prediction, saying that Jesus had returned
indeed, but in invisible form.
Our brothers expected the return of Christ first for 1844 and then for 1914.
They also expected initially to be his return visible, but then understood that it would be invisible.
They also expected the glorification of the little flock for spring 1918.
The year when brother Russell died, 1916, the brothers entered a period of serious
testing, some even left the truth. 1919, faithful ones consolidated again.
100 years have passed, 1919, now 2000, 1900 years.
Would special prophecies be fulfilled 100 years after 1919?
Well, this is just a question. No answer.
There were serious testing during the year 1925 also.
And for that year, our brothers had great expectations.
It said in one of our publications, we may confidently expect that from the booklet,
millions now living will never die, that in 1925 it will mark the return from the dead of Abraham,
Isaac, Jacob and the faithful prophets of old to the condition of human perfection.
Not only was the resurrection of faithful men of old expected in 1925,
but some hope that anointed Christians might receive their heavenly reward in that year.
From the year 1987, we learned that the year 1925 started very promisingly with a new
Bethel home and factory in Beren, Switzerland. However, some had their personal convictions with
respect to that year 1925. Would they let themselves be admonished by the watchtower of January
1925? The watchtower cautioned, and I quote, the year 1925 is here with great expectation
Christians have looked forward to this year. Many have confidently expected that all members of
the body of Christ will be changed to heavenly glory during the year. This may be accomplished,
it may not be. In his own due time, God will accomplish his purposes concerning his own people.
Christians should not be so deeply concerned about what may transpire during this year,
that they would fail to joyfully do what the Lord would have them to do.
Among others, Jacob Weber, who was responsible for the field service desk at the Bethel
or branch in Switzerland, was so sure that all the anointed would be glorified in heaven by the end
of the year 1925, that he pursued a liquidation course. He sent large quantities of literature
to the congregations without having received orders for it, instructing them to distribute
the publications free of charge in their territory before the end of 1925.
All the efforts of the brothers at Bethel to reason with him were to no avail. Finally,
he left not only Bethel, but even the truth, and caused much grief among the brothers throughout
the country, Switzerland, since he drew many with him. Some congregations were reduced to less than
half the former size. What about expectations for the year, years later, 25, 1975?
In the book, or in the Watchtower, March 15, a comet is made, and it says that in modern times,
such eagerness, commendable in itself, has led to attempts to set dates for the desired
liberation from the suffering and troubles that are the lot of persons throughout the earth.
With the appearance of the book, life everlasting, in freedom of the sons of God,
and its comments as to how appropriate it would be for the millennial reign of Christ to parallel
this 7th millennium of man's existence, considerable expectation was aroused regarding the year
1975. There were statements made then, and thereafter stressing that this was only a possibility.
Unfortunately, however, since the Watchtower, along with such cautionary information,
there were other statements published that imply that such realization of hopes
by that year, 1975, was more of a probability than a mere possibility.
It is to be regretted amidst the Watchtower. It is to be regretted that these latter statements
apparently overshadowed the cautionary ones and contribute to a build-up of the expectation
already initiated. In its issue of July 15, 1976, the Watchtower commenting on the inadvisability
of sitting outside some a certain date stated. If anyone has been disappointed through not
following this line of thought, he should now concentrate on adjusting his viewpoints,
seeing that it was not the word of God that failed or deceived him and brought disappointment,
but that his own understanding was based on wrong premises. In saying anyone, the Watchtower
included all disappointed ones of Jehovah's Witnesses, hence including persons having to do with
the publication of the information that contributed to the build-up of hopes centered on that date,
end of quote. So very humbly, the Watchtower admitted that June 15, 1976.
Nevertheless, there is no reason for us to be shaken in the faith,
God's promises. Rather as a consequence, we are all moved to make a closer examination of the
Scriptures regarding this matter of the day of judgment. In doing so, we find that the important
thing is not the date. What is important is our keeping every in mind that there is such a day,
and it's getting close and it will require an accounting on the part of all of us. Peter said
that Christians should rightly be awaiting and keeping close in mind the presence of the day of
Jehovah. There's a good reason to remain in expectation. Jesus told us to do so. In this regard,
Jehovah's Organization has sent an example. Although sometimes promoting wrong expectations,
our publications have consistently exalted us to wait and keep close in mind the presence of the day
of Jehovah and to fix our hope in God's promised new world. Since keeping in expectation was
appropriate for Christians living centuries ago, it is particularly important for us. Why?
Because we are living during Christ's presence, the sign of His presence has been in evidence since
1914, and the multi-featured sign, which includes worsening world conditions and global kingdom
preaching, is proof that we are living in the conclusion of the system of things. Since Jesus did not
say how long that period of time would go or go on before the final end arrived, we need to be
especially vigilant, watchful. There's no doubt that world conditions are deteriorating,
but how bad do you expect conditions to become before the Great Tribulation? Jesus said that
most people would take no note of His presence, carrying on with life's normal activities
until it is too late. Thus, the Scriptures indicate that world conditions during the last days
would not become so extreme that people would be forced to believe that the end is near.
On the other hand, for the composite sign to serve its purpose, the fulfillment of it would have
to be obviously enough to command the attention of those who have been obeying Jesus' counsel to
keep on the watch, and that has been the case since 1914. From that time onward, the features of
the sign have been undergoing fulfillment. Clearly, we are now living in the time of the conclusion
of the system of things. Why then should Christians today keep in orientation or expectation
out of obedience to Jesus Christ, out of love for Him, out of faith in His promises?
We recognize the sign of His presence. Our expectations are based not on naive readiness
to believe anything, but on solid, scriptural evidence that compels us to remain vigilant,
awake, watchful, and, yes, in expectation of the end of this wicked system.
Many of us have been keeping awake spiritually already for decades. However, let us not allow
the passing of time to weaken our resolve to keep in expectation. We need to be ready for
Jesus' arrival as executioner to end this system of things. Remember that Jesus exhorted His
followers in accordance with the prophecy in Mark 13, starting with verse 33.
Keep looking, keep awake, for you do not know when the appointed time is. It is like a man
traveling abroad who left his house and gave the authority to his slaves to each one his work,
and commanded the doorkeeper to keep on the watch. Keep on the watch, therefore, for you do not know
when the master of the house is coming, whether late in the day or at midnight, or a dawn or early
in the morning, in order that when he comes suddenly he does not find you sleeping. But what I say
to you, I say to all, keep on the watch. Upon recognizing that Christ's presence began in
1914, Jesus' followers rightly prepared for a possible early arrival of the end, that it so
by intensifying their kingdom preaching work. Jesus indicated that he might come later at dawn or
early in the morning, he said, if that happened, how were his followers to respond? He said, keep
on the watch. So a long wait would not justify mentally postponing the end or totally dismissing
their expectations. Consider the prophet Habakkuk, who was commissioned to foretell the destruction
of Jerusalem. Jehovah assured his faithful prophet that the foretell destruction would not be
late. He said, keep in expectation, Habakkuk chapter 1 and also chapter 2 verse 3.
So don't you get discouraged by the fact that you have been preaching for a long time, perhaps
decades. In the new world, all will have reason to reflect on the fact that all the foretold
events associated with the conclusion of the system of things are indeed taking place or have
taken place. Meditating on how matters actually turned out will further strengthen our confidence
in Jehovah and his promises to be fulfilled. We will surely be thankful to a God who has placed
times and seasons in his own jurisdiction. He exalted us to live within awareness that the end of
all things has drawn close. The Bible predicts that political powers will turn against false
religion. We should not assume that much time is needed for the state of this world to develop
to the point where political powers, according to Revelation 17, 16 turn on world, the world
Empire false religion. It says there in Revelation 17 and the 10 horns that you saw and the political
wild beast. These will hate the prostitute false religion and will make her devastated and
naked and they will eat up her flesh and completely burn her with fire. Let us bear in mind that
God will put it into their hearts to make that move and this could happen swiftly and at any time.
The end of this entire system of things is not far off. With good reason we should eat Jesus
morning. Pay attention to yourselves that your hearts never become way down with overeating
and heavy drinking or anxieties of life and suddenly let they be instantly upon you as a snare.
Let us be resolved to serve Jehovah with a sense of urgency, confident that he acts in behalf of
those who keep in expectation of him. As we await the end of the present wicked system of
things, let us hear the Disappointed Jude's inspired words to 2021, beloved ones, build yourselves up
on your most holy faith and pray with Holy Spirit in order to keep yourselves in God's love
while you await the mercy of our Lord Jesus Christ with everlasting life in view. By doing so,
you Giliate students and each one of us here will prove ourselves ready. Yes, all this prepared
for the good work the Christ will do, but also for every good work that we strive to do on a daily
basis. Well, now we have the highlight of the program. We'll have the presentation of the diplomas
and to help me with this, actually I think he has the hardest job here today,
is Brother William Malinfond, a helper to the teaching committee. He has the task of getting
all these marvelous names right. So make, Major Hove be with you, Bill. First of all, we have Brother Bovo,
he will be returning to Slovenia, and now we have Brother Coruso, will now be serving in Chile.
Brother and Sister Chung will be returning to Hong Kong. Sister Courto will be returning to Spain.
Brother and Sister Diaz will be returning to the United States. Sister Geneleva will be returning
to Kyrgyzstan. Brother Etchiparibod will now be serving in Cote d'Ivoire. Brother and Sister
Frazier will be returning to the Solomon Islands. Brother and Sister Govea will be returning to Angola.
Brother and Sister Gugsa will be returning to Ethiopia. Brother and Sister Hamasaki will now be
serving in Indonesia. Brother and Sister Diaz will now be serving in Senegal. Sister Kam will be
returning to France. Brother and Sister Kabulwe will be returning to Zambia. Brother and Sister
Lokont will now be serving in the United States. Brother and Sister Lee will be returning to Korea.
Brother Lindbergh will be returning to Finland. Brother Martinez will be returning to Mexico.
Brother and Sister Machiotra will now be serving in Cote d'Ivoire. Sister McGee will be returning
to Jamaica. Brother and Sister Morrell will be returning to Paraguay. Brother Mosul Lishvili will
be returning to Georgia. Brother and Sister Muslia will be returning to Albania. Brother and Sister
Kosi will be returning to Malawi. Brother Noel will be returning to Peru. Brother and Sister Saur will
be returning to Cambodia. Brother and Sister Sebeko will be returning to Malawi. Brother and Sister
Sitole will be returning to South Africa. Brother and Sister Spina will now be serving in Croatia.
Brother and Sister Zukehrman Kostermans will be returning to Indonesia. Brother Wanimalani will be
returning to the Solomon Islands. And finally, Brother Webster will now be serving in Ecuador.
Well, would you like to see now the graduates of the 147th class of Gilead?
Well, now Brother Sukerman Kostermans is going to read the class letter.
To the governing body and the Bethel family, dear brothers. Upon receiving our invitation to attend
Gilead, our hearts were filled with gratitude for Jehovah. Today, Mark's attorney point in our
lives, and we would like to thank the governing body for this opportunity to be taught and molded
by our grand instructor Jehovah God. Your fine example of love and personal interest has touched us.
In spite of your busy schedule, you personally came to teachers and helped us better understand
the mind of Christ. As we reflect on how Jehovah has bestowed upon us a blessing without measure,
we share the sentiments of the Psalmist in Psalm 116, verse 12 and 14, who sang,
with what will I repay Jehovah for all the good he has done for me? I will pay my vows to Jehovah
in the presence of all his people. We are determined to pay our vows by using the special training
to serve the interests of his organization, to his praise and honor.
We are very thankful for the way the Bethel family welcomed us. In all the complexes, the hospitality
shown was much more than we could have imagined. The majority of the class are Bethelites,
and to a certain degree we understand how much work time and effort is needed to display
hospitality. You are very attentive to us. You could read the question marks on our foreheads
when we got lost. You are patiently standing in line behind us in the dining room when we saw
certain foods for the first time. What can we say? We feel part of your family. Additionally,
we have seen such wisdom and love through the gifts and man who have been used as instructors.
You, brothers, have generously given of yourselves both heart and mind.
By means of your teaching and experiences, you have helped us to isolate and apply Bible principles,
to be people-oriented, to deal with and see others as Christ did. It has helped us cultivate
essential qualities that have changed the fabric of who we are inside. You never drew attention
to yourselves, but in all the lessons we truly appreciate how you glorified and magnified Jehovah.
As Proverbs 10-22 says, it is the blessing of Jehovah that makes one rich. We have been enriched
by making new lifelong friends, but Gilear training does not end here. As we depart for our various
assignments around the world, our determination is to stick ever closer to Jehovah and the work
he has assigned to us. Our resolve is to use our training to stabilize and strengthen
our brothers and to bring glory and honor to our grand instructor, Jehovah. We wish to convey
our gratitude and love to all of you. Your brothers and sisters, 147th class of Gilear.
Well, at the beginning of this graduation program, I posed a question to all of you,
and that question was, how far will you go? Well, in order to fully serve our brothers and sisters,
to love them, to train them, to help them, you will have to make major sacrifices in your life.
Some of you are making them right now in order to accept some of the assignments that you
received today. But I wanted to share with you a Bible account that I'd like for you to try to
keep in your minds, because you never know when the phone is going to ring or that email is going to
come. Let's go to 2 Chronicles, chapter 25, and here we read about King Amazaya. It's very
interesting what the Bible says here. Now, it mentions that in verse 6 of 2 Chronicles 25,
that Amazaya hired from Israel a hundred thousand mighty warriors for one hundred silver talents.
Now, I didn't do all the math. Sorry, brother, explain. But I understand that this is well,
well, over one million dollars in today's money. So this is a very, very large sum that Amazaya had
paid. But after he had done so, look at verse 7, but a man of the true God came to him saying,
okay, do not let the army of Israel go with you. For Jehovah is not with Israel, not with any of
the Ephraimites, but go by yourself and be courageous in battle. Otherwise, the true God could
cause you to stumble before an enemy. For God has the power to help and to cause stumbling.
Well, how did Amazaya react to that counsel? You see, right away in verse 9,
what Amazaya says to the man of the true God, but what about the one hundred talents that I've given
to the troops of Israel, right? He had already paid the money. When how could we apply that principle
to you? Well, many of you may have made major sacrifices already in your career full-time service.
Maybe you've had to learn a new language. Maybe you've made an investment of time in your
department at Bethel or in your field assignment. And now you're being asked to do something different.
Perhaps learn a whole new language or go from field to the field to Bethel or from the Bethel
to the field. Well, will you feel like Amazaya? Will you say what about those one hundred talents
that I've already paid? Well, here's the answer that I'd like for you to keep in your mind.
You see, the man of the true God in verse 9 answered Amazaya, and this is what he said,
Jehovah has the means to give you much more than that. And that's the thought you want to
treasure in your mind and heart when you're asked to take up some new challenge, some new assignment.
And it may mean walking away from a large investment that you have already made. Remember,
Jehovah has the power to give you much more than that. Well, with those thoughts in mind,
may you go with all of our love, with our deep respect, and with the blessing of our wonderful
our amazing God, Jehovah.